Hi everyone.
So let's see how we can drop some missing Rose or missing values a really well in a data frame object
or some column.
This is having a missing value so to illustrate the concept of this missing value and some function
we are going to use on the top of this data frame object like a drop banner and drop any I have created
one data frame object which is having a some arbitrary value and majority of values are like a and b
dart and then and then is a special way of indicating that this is not the number and we'll use this
particular attribute from the NUM by lately.
So no library I already imported earlier.
So if you aren't important you have to import it while executing this particular statement.
So I have created this data from this data and the column name I listed later ABC.
So let me just execute it and we create the data frame object first.
Okay let's display where the f object.
So we have a total four rows and a four column.
Now if you observe your major duty of rose up and n so n n is a special way of indicating that is a
missing value inside data.
So we are going to use one function on top of this data frame object like a drop any so drop not a number.
So many times while analyzing your data you might face the situations like if you if you had a having
a some kind of missing value in any row or column label you have to remove that particular rows or column
respectively.
So let's see the documentation of this drop any so if you see it exists and how so we're going to play
it mainly this two parameter like Xs and how so Xs can have a two values like a CDO or one so zeros
corresponding to rollover and one is corresponding to column Lewin.
So at a column loop it will consider and another one is later how so how is also two values like any
or all so default values.
So let's try to put it into practice.
So let's say at a rally when we want to apply this thing.
So we are going to supply X this is equal to zero and let's say how you want to remove anything so let's
say n so it indicates that at the Raleigh Well if you find any of the record it is having at least any
value none are not a number or a missing value you just discard it.
So now you can see every single course you can try to visualize this thing horizontal.
So every single that caused this one first and then this one every single decoders at least one missing.
So what it will do it will just discard every single records.
So we got almost zero records no output and it has returned as that data frame which is having no records
at all.
Let's try it all.
Another parameter at a rollover.
So instead of any let's say on.
So all indicates that if you observe every single value is missing in that particular record then oddly
discarded.
So let us execute.
So now you can see the full track record which is having index number three has been discarded remaining.
All of that could remain as it is in output.
Now what are the output we got from this drop any function it has returned as the brand new data frame
object but if you just display the ordinary data frame the change is not permanent.
Still we got our original data fully.
That means whatever the change and a modification with help of this drop any function what we have applied
on a level additional data that does not mean taking place into our or is null object.
So far that we will learn about the in-place parameter.
So same in place parameter what we are learning a c e object that will be applied on a data frame object
also.
So those things will seem to some future videos.
So as of now without this in place parameter it has returned as the brand new data every object we can
assign it to the same.
But our objective here is not to assign and create a new data frame object.
Just observe that is based on the different parameters.
So this thing will applied in Raleigh with Now let's apply it to column one.
So instead of x is equal to zero let's say x is equal to 1.
And how you want to do it.
So any of the records having a none value or a missing value just discarded.
So every single column has at least one value.
It is a missing.
That's why it has discarded every single column.
Let's do Victor any instead of any let's try it all
so now you can imaging which particular column will be discarded.
So here the sea column sea column has every single record which the missing.
That means that only will be discarded.
Apart from that this column has at least one value it is not missing me has a true value it is not missing
and it has also two value is it three values is not missing.
So each one we discarded.
So let's see the result.
So as expected the column C has been removed.
Now this thing happens.
Dysfunction.
You can apply whenever you find some missing mail you are not on a mark of value.
Now let's say in part you already know that some of the rules what are some of the columns you anyhow
one to discarded independent of any criteria.
So whether it has a missing rose or a missing column or missing values inside that particular hole are
missing values in that particular column.
You don't want to include that in your further analysis.
So in that case you have to use the function like a drop instead of drop any so it lets that apply data
but only with so little.
Now before that let me just bring this overall regional data.
So yes.
Now at a really well beach other rows you want to misguided.
So for that we have a one attribute what we can some place later levies and let's say we want to remove
the index number bodies like a tool.
So we have got to return like a zero row first row and turtle.
Okay so index number is like a 0 1 and 2.
It has the return is this second number is and has been removed.
We can even supply like 2 and 3 so 0 and 1 only it will be return.
Now let's say let's apply the same function into column labor.
So if talk can drop so let's say x is equal to 1.
Now when you want to drop some particular column in that case you how to parse the parameters later
column and which are the column you want to discard it.
So let's say I want to discard the B so compare to be double ordinal data from the F and see the result
and see the comparison output.
So B has been discarded.
You want to decide let's say B also so e and see only will be right.
So in this way independent of any missing values across the row or column with type of draft function
you can drop individual rows or a column and you have to supply those index number corresponding to
rows and column.
OK so that is all about this video see you in the next video.